<p align="justify">
To create the knowledge graph, we firstly searched the PubMed for papers which have **Nurses’ Health Study** or **Health Professionals Follow-up Study** in title or abstract, along with papers co-authored with main PIs of NHS. We manually filtered papers which studied the association between dietary exposures and heart-related complications, such as *coronary heart disease*, *stroke*, and *hypertension*.

Since not all papers are indexed on PubMed, we searched the web with same criteria to find the remaining papers. Next, we manually looked into the abstracts of obtained papers and extracted the exposure-phenotype relations, the associations found, the effect size, and other related information. More than one association might be studied in a paper. Overall, we found 292 studied associations from 91 papers, where 124 negative and 45 positive associations were documented in relation to heart-related complications. In the remaining cases, there was no significant association between an exposure and a phenotype of study. 

The obtained data is shown in a knowledge graph (Figure 1 in the manuscript) where each link is representing an association. The space of studied exposures is rather heterogeneous and is often driven by the researcher's interests and experience. For example, the effects of some nutrients were studied with respect to replacement with other nutrients, e.g., the effect of replacing trans fat with monounsaturated fatty acids. In some cases, the intake ratio of two nutrients, e.g., the ratio of polyunsaturated fat to trans fat, or of two food items was examined. Moreover, according to the exposure of interest, the set of adjusting variables used to account for confounding effects varied from one study to another.

</p>
